= oVirt Ruby SDK

image:https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/ovirt/ovirt-master-snapshot/package/rubygem-ovirt-engine-sdk4/status_image/last_build.png[https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/ovirt/ovirt-master-snapshot/package/rubygem-ovirt-engine-sdk4/]

== Introduction

The oVirt Ruby SDK is a Ruby gem that simplyfies access to the oVirt
Engine API.

IMPORTANT: This document describes how to generate, build and test the
SDK. If you are interested in how to use it read the `README.adoc` file
in the `sdk` directory instead.

== Building

The SDK uses http://www.xmlsoft.org[libxml2] for parsing and rendering
XML documents and https://curl.haxx.se/libcurl[libcurl] for HTTP
communication. The part of the SDK that interacts with these libraries
is written in C. This means that before building you must make sure you
have the C compiler and the required header and libraries files
installed in your system. For example to install with the `yum` or `dnf`
package manager in distributions like Fedora, CentOS or RHEL you will
need to do the following:

  # dnf -y install \
  gcc \
  libcurl-devel \
  libxml2-devel \
  redhat-rpm-config \
  ruby \
  ruby-devel \
  rubygems \
  rubygems-devel

NOTE: The installation of the `ruby`, `ruby-devel`, `rubygems` and
`rubygems-devel` packages is necessary if you are going to use the Ruby
version included in your distribution. If you are using tools like
`rbenv` or `rvm` then this is not necessary.

If you are using the `apt-get` tool, in distributions like Debian, or
Ubuntu:

  # apt-get --assume-yes install \
  gcc \
  libcurl4-openssl-dev \
  libxml2-dev \
  ruby \
  ruby-dev

NOTE: The installation of the `ruby`, and `ruby-dev` packages is
necessary if you are going to use the Ruby version included in your
distribution. If you are using tools like `rbenv` or `rvm` then this is
not necessary.

Some Linux distributions, like Debian and Ubuntu, provide multiple
versions of `libcurl`, compiled with support for different TLS
libraries: OpenSSL, NSS and GnuTLS. Currently the SDK only supports
OpenSSL, so make sure that you have that version of `libcurl` installed.
For example, in Ubuntu 16.04 if you have the NSS version installed, you
will have to remove it and then install the OpenSSL version:

  # apt-get --assume-yes remove libcurl4-nss-dev
  # apt-get --assume-yes install libcurl4-openssl-dev

To manage the Ruby gems required for the build the project uses
http://bundler.io[bundler], so you need to install this as well:

  # gem install bundler

Most of the source code of the Ruby SDK is automatically generated from
the API model.

The code generator is a Java program that resides in the `generator`
directory. This Java program will get the API model and the metamodel
artifacts from the available Maven repositories. To build and run it use
the you will need to have https://maven.apache.org[Maven] installed. For
example, in Fedora, CentOS or RHEL:

  # dnf -y install maven

And in Debian or Ubuntu:

  # apt-get --assume-yes install maven

Once all the requirements are installed the SDK can be built as follows:

  $ git clone git@github.com:oVirt/ovirt-engine-sdk-ruby.git
  $ cd ovirt-engine-sdk-ruby
  $ mvn package

This will build the code generator, run it to generate the SDK for the
version of the API that corresponds to the branch of the SDK that you
are using, run the tests, and build the `.gem` file.

If you need to generate the SDK for a different version of the API then
you can use the `model.version` property. For example, if you need to
generate the SDK for version `4.1.0` of the SDK you can use this
command:

  $ mvn package -Dmodel.version=4.1.0

The generated `.gem` file will be located in the `sdk` directory:

  $ ls sdk/*.gem
  sdk/ovirt-engine-sdk-4.0.0.alpha0.gem

== Testing

The test suite of the project is inside the `sdk/spec` directory. To run
the tests change into the `sdk` directory and execute the `bundle exec
rake test` command:

  $ cd sdk
  $ bundle exec rake test

This will run the http://rspec.info[RSpec] tests. You can also run them
directly with the `rspec` command, if you have it installed:

  $ rspec
